docs: initial draft for restructuring the CMS quickstarts guide (#5207)
ddev/ddev: docs/content/users/quickstart.md

# CMS Quickstarts

> With the generic `php` and `python` project types DDEV is [ready to go](./project.md) with any PHP and Python based content management system (CMS) or framework. In addition there are preconfigured project types for many popular platforms and CMSes. To learn more about how to manage projects in DDEV visit the [Managing Projects](../users/usage/managing-projects.md) page.

Reviewer: There’s an echo in “With the generic...” and “...with any PHP...” and all of this could be more concise:

```suggestion
DDEV is [ready to go](./project.md) with generic project types for PHP and Python frameworks, and more specific project types for [working with popular platforms and CMSes](../users/usage/managing-projects.md).
```

Author: i like the changes for the first sentence. but i wouldnt strike the second and just leave in the link to the managing projects page. for me the managing projects page has a different purpose than what the first sentence is about. therefore i would consider it confusing. the first sentence is about what is available on the quickstarts page while the striked second sentence is about what the manageing projects page is about.

Author: I would suggest to bring the second sentence back in: 

```DDEV is [ready to go](./project.md) with generic project types for PHP and Python frameworks, and more specific project types for working with popular platforms and CMSes. To learn more about how to manage projects in DDEV visit the [Managing Projects](../users/usage/managing-projects.md) page.```

Reviewer 2: It's your PR, so write it the way you think it should be and Matt will get another chance :)

Reviewer: > I would suggest to bring the second sentence back in:
> (...)

This reads better to me, and I see your point! Only nitpick left is that it could end with “visit Managing Projects” since that’d clearly link to a page—meaning “the” and “page” don’t add anything and can be removed.

Author: pushed a commit with your suggested changes.

> Before proceeding, make sure your installation of DDEV is up-to-date. In a new and empty project folder, using your favorite shell, run the following commands:

Reviewer: I think _up-to-date_ would function more like an adjective, so I’d drop the hyphens in this case:

```suggestion
Before proceeding, make sure your installation of DDEV is up to date. In a new and empty project folder, using your favorite shell, run the following commands:
```

Author: that is totally fine with me. i was just searching on google which of the variants (with and without the dashes) was more common.

=== "Existing projects"

    You can start using DDEV with an existing project, too—just make sure you have a database backup handy!

    ```bash
    # Clone an existing repository (or navigate to a local project directory):
    git clone https://github.com/example/example-site my-craft-project
    cd my-craft-project

    # Set up the DDEV environment:
    ddev config --project-type=craftcms

    # Boot the project and install Composer packages:
    ddev start
    ddev composer install

    # Import a database backup and open the site in your browser:
    ddev import-db --file=/path/to/db.sql.gz
    ddev launch
    ```

    Craft CMS projects use PHP 8.1 and MySQL 8.0, by default. You can override these settings during setup with [`config` command flags](./usage/commands.md#config) or after setup via the [configuration files](./configuration/config.md).

    !!!tip "Upgrading or using a generic project type?"
        If you previously set up DDEV in a Craft project using the generic `php` project type, update the `type:` setting in `.ddev/config.yaml` to `craftcms`, then run [`ddev restart`](../users/usage/commands.md#restart) apply the changes.

> ### Running Craft in a Sub-directory

Reviewer: Un-hyphenate _sub-directory_ to be more consistent with DDEV and Craft’s docs and [common usage](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/subdirectory):

```suggestion
### Running Craft in a Subdirectory
```

Author: and one comment about the rest of the changes. i haven't touched any of the quickstarts text for this PR. wanted to tackle that in the next steps. but all the suggested changes are definitely improvements.

> In order for `ddev craft` to work when Craft is installed in a sub-directory, you will need to change the location of the `craft` executable by providing the `CRAFT_CMD_ROOT` environment variable to the web container. For example, if the installation lives in `my-craft-project/app`, you would run `ddev config --web-environment-add=CRAFT_CMD_ROOT=./app`. `CRAFT_CMD_ROOT` defaults to `./`, the project root directory. Run `ddev restart` to apply the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for `ddev craft` to work when Craft is installed in a subdirectory, you will need to change the location of the `craft` executable by providing the `CRAFT_CMD_ROOT` environment variable to the web container. For example, if the installation lives in `my-craft-project/app`, you would run `ddev config --web-environment-add=CRAFT_CMD_ROOT=./app`. `CRAFT_CMD_ROOT` defaults to `./`, the project root directory. Run `ddev restart` to apply the change.
```

> More information about customizing the environment and persisting configuration can be found in [Providing Custom Environment Variables to a Container](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/users/extend/customization-extendibility/#providing-custom-environment-variables-to-a-container).

Reviewer: Could shorten and drop impersonal “can be found in”:

```suggestion
Read more about customizing the environment and persisting configuration in [Providing Custom Environment Variables to a Container](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/users/extend/customization-extendibility/#providing-custom-environment-variables-to-a-container).
```

!!!tip "Installing Craft"
    Read more about installing Craft in the [official documentation](https://craftcms.com/docs).

## Django 4 (Experimental)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/example/my-django-site
cd my-django-site
ddev config # Follow the prompts
# If your settings file is not `settings.py` you must add a DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE
ddev config --web-environment-add=DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=<myapp.settings.local>
ddev start
# If your app requires setup, do it here:
# ddev python manage.py migrate
ddev launch
```

> * DDEV will install all everything in your `requirements.txt` or `pyproject.toml` into a `venv`. This takes a little while on first startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* DDEV will install everything in your `requirements.txt` or `pyproject.toml` into a `venv`. This takes a little while on first startup.
```

* If your `requirements.txt` includes `psycopg2` it requires build tools, so either set `ddev config --web-extra-packages=build-essential` or change your requirement to `psycopg2-binary`.

## Drupal

=== "Drupal 10"

    ```bash
    mkdir my-drupal10-site
    cd my-drupal10-site
    ddev config --project-type=drupal10 --docroot=web --create-docroot
    ddev start
    ddev composer create drupal/recommended-project
    ddev composer require drush/drush
    ddev drush site:install --account-name=admin --account-pass=admin -y
    ddev drush uli
    ddev launch
    ```

=== "Drupal 9"

    ```bash
    mkdir my-drupal9-site
    cd my-drupal9-site
    ddev config --project-type=drupal9 --docroot=web --create-docroot
    ddev start
    ddev composer create "drupal/recommended-project:^9"
    ddev composer require drush/drush
    ddev drush site:install --account-name=admin --account-pass=admin -y
    ddev drush uli
    ddev launch
    ```

=== "Drupal 6/7"

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/example/my-drupal-site
    cd my-drupal-site
    ddev config # Follow the prompts to select type and docroot
    ddev start
    ddev launch /install.php
    ```

>     Drupal 7 doesn’t know how to redirect from the front page to `/install.php` if the database is not set up but the settings files *are* set up, so launching with `/install.php` gets you started with an installation. You can also `drush site-install`, then `ddev exec drush site-install --yes`.

Reviewer: Run commands:

```suggestion
    Drupal 7 doesn’t know how to redirect from the front page to `/install.php` if the database is not set up but the settings files *are* set up, so launching with `/install.php` gets you started with an installation. You can also run `drush site-install`, then `ddev exec drush site-install --yes`.
```

    ```bash
    mkdir my-ee && cd my-ee
    unzip /path/to/ee-zipfile.zip
    ddev config # Accept the defaults
    ddev start
    ddev launch /admin.php # Open installation wizard in browser
    ```

    When the installation wizard prompts for database settings, enter `db` for the _DB Server Address_, _DB Name_, _DB Username_, and _DB Password_.

    Visit your site.

=== "ExpressionEngine Git Checkout"

    Follow these steps based on the [ExpressionEngine Git Repository README.md](https://github.com/ExpressionEngine/ExpressionEngine#how-to-install):

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/ExpressionEngine/ExpressionEngine # for example
    cd ExpressionEngine
    ddev config # Accept the defaults
    ddev start
    ddev composer install
    touch system/user/config/config.php
    echo "EE_INSTALL_MODE=TRUE" >.env.php
    ddev start
    ddev launch /admin.php  # Open installation wizard in browser
    ```

    When the installation wizard prompts for database settings, enter `db` for the _DB Server Address_, _DB Name_, _DB Username_, and _DB Password_.

## Laravel

Use a new or existing Composer project, or clone a Git repository.

> The Laravel project type can be used for [Lumen](https://lumen.laravel.com/) just as it can for Laravel. DDEV automatically updates or creates the `.env` file with the database information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Laravel project type can be used for [Lumen](https://lumen.laravel.com/) like it can for Laravel. DDEV automatically updates or creates the `.env` file with the database information.
```

## Silverstripe

Use a new or existing Composer project, or clone a Git repository.

=== "Composer"

    ```bash
    mkdir my-silverstripe-app
    cd my-silverstripe-app
    ddev config --project-type=silverstripe --docroot=public --create-docroot
    ddev composer create --prefer-dist --no-scripts silverstripe/installer -y
    ddev start
    ddev sake dev/build flush=all
    ```

=== "Git Clone"

    ```bash
    git clone <your-silverstripe-repo>
    cd <your-silverstripe-project>
    ddev config --project-type=silverstripe --docroot=public --create-docroot
    ddev start
    ddev composer install
    ddev sake dev/build flush=all
    ```

Your Silverstripe project is now ready.
The CMS can be found at /admin, log into the default admin account using `admin` and `password`.

Visit the [Silverstripe documentation](https://userhelp.silverstripe.org/en/5/) for more information.

`ddev sake` can be used as a shorthand for the Silverstripe Make command `ddev exec vendor/bin/sake`

To open the CMS directly from CLI, run `ddev launch /admin`.

## Statamic

Use a new or existing Composer project, or clone a Git repository.

> The Laravel project type can be used for [Statamic](https://statamic.com/) just as it can for Laravel. DDEV automatically updates or creates the `.env` file with the database information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Laravel project type can be used for [Statamic](https://statamic.com/) like it can for Laravel. DDEV automatically updates or creates the `.env` file with the database information.
```
